# A Preliminary Interview Study on Developers’ Perceptions of Code Smell Detection in Industry

## Abstract

_Context:_ Code smell is an anomalous code structure that may represent a threat to software maintenance and evolution. Code smell detection has been shown important to support software maintenance and evolution. Such detection is not trivial, so that many code smell detection tools have been proposed. However, there is a shortage of recent studies about the developer’s perception of code smell detection and detection tools. _Objective:_ This paper presents a preliminary interview study aimed to fill this gap by targeting a more recent generation of software developers. We aim to understand i) how practitioners perceive code smells and ii) whether/why developers use code smell detection tools. _Method:_ We carefully designed an structured interview protocol composed of six major questions. We interviewed seven developers, recruited by convenience, who work for major companies worldwide on software maintenance and evolution.We followed strict guidelines for thematic synthesis to analyze the interview texts. _Results:_ The perception of interviewees on code smells is in line with the traditional definition, even when developers lack academic formation. All interviewees reported on being concerned with adding code smells while they produce code, although a half of them feel that their pairs do not share these concerns. Most interviewees use code smell detection tools, but costs with tool setup and company culture may prevent developers from using them. _Conclusion:_ Our interview-based study complements the current knowledge by suggesting that a more recent generation of developers may be willing to use code smell detection tools if properly encouraged.
